# Visualisation of Napoleon's Russian Campaign 1812
To construct Charles Minard’s famous visual display of Napoleon’s Russian title charge, I used python with matplotlib libraries. Additionally I used pandas to read and scale the data and to load the various excel files. To make the Minard-data.xslx file more convenient to use, I divided it into 3 different excel workbooks. 

The first subplot showcases the path of Napoleon’s army during the attacking and retreating phases. The line width encodes the relative size of the army at each stage, showing its decline as the campaign progresses. The Russian cities are named on the chart and are also plotted as blue diamonds. Since Moskow is of the highest significance as compared to the other cities on this chart, I highlighted the city with an orange star. 

The second subplot of the same chart depicts the extreme weather conditions faced by the soldiers during their retreating phase. The line plot contains temperature points with corresponding dates to show the correlation between the retreating army (100,000 to 6,000) and the extremely harsh weather conditions. Since the Minard data.xslx file only had longitude coordinates (LONT) for the days the temperature was recorded on, I used a common x axis for both plots. Both these sub plots consistently use a common x-axis that is longitude which is an interesting addition to the visual appeal of the chart as it makes it scalable. I set the background color of the visualisation to light gray to improve the contrast of the chart. I also included grid lines to help the reader to understand the temperature and army data better. By encoding the army size according to the line width, it exhibits the tragic scale of losses. 

In my opinion, this visualisation provides a clear and irrefutable depiction of Napoleon’s campaign. It captures his failures as well as the harsh conditions that largely contributed to his defeat. Further improvements could be made to improve readability in packed areas.
